this is a question from the Stow campus
and it'll say it says how do you respond
to non-believers who accuse Christians
of being hateful to people who support
lifestyles that are according to the
precepts of our faith.
I think this is a  very important question and they all are
really I'd be a dishonest person if I
said to you that that question doesn't
worry me that I don't even think about
it
in fact we as a team our entire team
people like Nabeel Qureshi Michel
Ramsden oz Guinness a Maori Ewing aren't
ice because too often sat around a table
and said you know how do we deal with
this very trying social issue of our
time and even though the word is not
used here the idea is you know the
homosexual lifestyle and all that has
come about in our time how do we as
Christians deal with it? So Joe if you
don't mind I'd like to take an extended
answer in this you know let me give you
about three panels of an answer the
first panel is the logical problem the
second panel is what I call the
theological problem and the third panel
is what I would call the relational
problem how you communicate it so let me
take first of all the sociological issue
here what is the problem now we talked
about tolerance so when I was at one of
the prestigious universities somebody
went to the microphone and asked this
question and I said to the person I said
I will be glad to answer your question
if you will first answer mine what kind
of a culture are we living in you have
to define it for me I said as far as I
know there are three cultures in
relation to absolute the first quest the
first culture is called a thick anima
sculpture where the law of God is
supposedly so embedded into our hearts
that we all emotive ly or otherwise
think in the same categories once upon a
time we would talk about the natural law
in those categories natural law we
believe these truths to be self-evident
the early framers believed in the
natural law we don't believe in natural
law
anymore but we used to talk about and
that's a thick anima sculpture theros
god no mas law sometimes the Indian
culture will get close to that it's not
always the case but they sort of Darth
Academy is what they will say there are
people of the soil and the idea of
respect for parents and all of that they
consider to be self-evident ingrained in
the heart of man and so on but we don't
believe in the Theon immerse culture in
the West so what's the second kind of
culture the second kind of culture is a
heteronomous culture heteros meaning
another No Mas meaning law so we have
another law what does that mean the
mainstream of the culture is dictated to
by the leadership at the top if you look
at Marxism in secular terms it is a
heteronomous culture the handful and the
top will control the masses if you look
at Islam it's a heteronomous culture if
you go to Saudi Arabia or you go to Iran
which are supposed to be truly Islamic
countries the mullahs or the sheiks or
who are the ayatollahs at the top will
tell the masses when they must fast when
they can eat what they must wear what
they must not wear who they can be seen
with who they cannot be seen with all of
the dictates even to the discipline of
how you wash your hands and feet before
you worship and so on it's a
heteronomous culture the few at the top
dictated for the masses below so I
looked at the question and I said a
really enormous culture I said no I said
are we a heteronomous culture I said no
we don't want the few to dictate it for
the money I said so that leaves us with
the third which is an autonomous culture
our toss meaning self namaz meaning law
which means each person dictates their
own moral prerogatives in the set I said
are we on autonomous culture he said yes
I saw right now tell me this if we are
on autonomous culture and I answer your
question are you going to give me the
privilege of my autonomy too or as soon
as you disagree with my answer you will
switch to a heteronomous mode and
dictate for me what I must believe as
well that is the sociological dilemma
that is the sociological dilemma because
if a disagrees would be it's not just
that is being enforcing his or her
principles upon being
but B wants to enforce his or her
principles upon a so there's a mutual
autocracy being sought here but it is
never going to be consistent in a
culture that is neither phenom us nor
heteronomous autonomous cultures run
into a conflict where everybody has
their own autonomy that's the law that's
a sociological issue you move beyond
that then to the theological issue the
theological issue is this way years ago
I was doing some open forums at Indiana
University and the press reporter was I
was there with Dallas Willard we were
both to debate doing the defense of the
Christian faith and press reporter came
and said she was filming some religious
actions on campus for their network and
so on do you mind if we take what you're
going to talk about tonight I said no
that's all right you're welcome but she
then she startled me by saying we'll
only be there for about five minutes and
then we'll be packing up and leaving I
hope we won't disturb you and I thought
this is what the news does with the talk
takes five minutes of it and then tells
people that this is what was said you
know I thought okay but I wasn't gonna
argue with I said ma'am you're welcome
to leave just tell your crew to be very
quiet because once I get into the thick
of it I really don't like the
distraction and they'll be quiet
slipping out I'll be okay she stayed the
whole time stayed for the whole talk
stayed for the Q&A and then she said can
I walk you back to where you're staying
I was staying on the campus I said right
and she was walking to me it's quite
dark at this time and she says I have a
question for you I said is this on the
record or is this an off-the-record
question
she said no this is for me I said so you
promise me this is just between you and
me in order to print these answers and
okay that's all right I just want to
know and so she said you know I have a
problem with Christianity and here's my
problem
Christians are generally against racism
but when it comes to the homosexual they
discriminate against the homosexual how
do you explain that I said I find your
comments so interesting in the first
part of the question it's an ism you're
talking about the second part of the
question you particular eyes it with
individual some just fascinated by that
that's okay I said here's what I want to
say to you the reason we believe that
discrimination ethnically is wrong is
because the race and ethnicity of a
person is sacred you do not violate a
person's ethnicity and race it is a
sacred gift and the reason we believe in
an absolute nester sexuality is because
we believe sexuality is sacred as well
and that's why we make a choice that
same way I said you will help me if you
will tell me why you treat race as
sacred and desacralized sexuality she
was very quiet she said I've never
thought of it in those terms here's what
I want to say view marriage as God has
given it to us and if you take the whole
corpus of the world view is the most
sacred relationship into which you will
enter because love is given one word in
English but there are four words in the
Greek agape eros storge and agape filler
Oh storge and eros agape is God's love
filler who is friendship love or
brotherly love story is protective love
of parental love eros is romantic love I
said do you realize marriage is the only
one that pulls these four together
agape Follette Oh storge and eros I said
and if you take agape out of that eros
is gone for whatever you want to do
romantic love becomes redefined and to
us the Bible gives the sacredness of
marriage as Christ is to the church the
bridegroom and the bride and in that
sacredness the beauty of a consummate
relationship between a man and a woman
as it is shown in the singular
commitment of the marital vow I do
I will when you say I do to the one you
say I don't do all of the others and you
say I will to one you're saying I won't
to all of the others so any departure
from that beauty and sacredness of the
four confluences of love is a biblical
notion of what it really means to be
married and to just take one behavior
and make it look like it's aberrant is
not right all departures from that are
not acceptable in the sight of God the
theological position is a consummate
relationship between a man and a woman
in the procreative Act and in the
sacredness and paying each other the
ultimate compliment of taking each other
at their word
so theologically this is the way we see
it sociologically we've been put into a
conundrum so we come then in
relationally how do we deal with it and
here's the hard part but you know what
and my wife will tell you this others
will tell you this who know me I accept
people with a love and a genuineness
regardless of what their view is on
anything if it's different to mine I
have learned to love humanity I can put
my arm around a person who has a
different view on marriage or a
different view on politics of water and
just say you know God gives you the most
sacred Drifter gift of the prerogative
of choice but God does not give you the
privilege of determining a different
outcome to what the choice will entail
the consequences are bound to the choice
and you go right back to the book of
Genesis and it tells you you do what is
right will not you will you not be
accepted but if you don't sin stalks a
veil at the door desires to have you and
so when I look at the sacredness of
marriage any change from it from the
biblical point of view is a departure
from the biblical mandate but at the
same time the Bible commands us to love
even those with whom we disagree and our
responsibility as the church is never to
eight the individual our privilege is to
love and only God can change the heart
of a person and God is the ultimate
judge and anaplerotic society
let us as Christians be both light salt
and learn to love one another and let
God be the judge over all of us he is
the one who is pure in his judgments we
can make errors those are the three
panels I want to leave with you